# Personality-based Book Matching Web App

## Overview

This web application seamlessly integrates Next.js for the frontend and a TypeScript-based Node.js backend, with MongoDB as the database. The backend stores data from the `outputFile.csv`, generated by the `webscraping.ipynb` script that extracts book information from Amazon.in using Python, BeautifulSoup, and Pandas.

## Application Purpose

The primary goal of this web app is to match individuals' personalities with literature genres and specific books. The process involves utilizing the "difference of vectors" approach to recommend books that align with users' unique characteristics.

## Matching Algorithm

The application employs a sophisticated algorithm that considers vectors derived from key parameters such as age, year of publication, and additional factors. This algorithm enhances the recommendation system, providing users with literature suggestions tailored to their personality traits.

## Development Stack

### Frontend

- **Framework:** Next.js
- **Language:** TypeScript

### Backend

- **Framework:** Node.js
- **Language:** TypeScript
- **Database:** MongoDB

## Data Flow

1. **Web Scraping:**

   - The `webscraping.ipynb` script, written in Python, utilizes BeautifulSoup for web scraping on Amazon.in. It extracts book details, creating an `outputFile.csv` with comprehensive information, including book names, images, publication years, and categories. Pandas is used for data transformation and storage.

2. **Backend Processing:**

   - The Node.js backend reads and stores the data from `outputFile.csv` in MongoDB. It then finds the vector of difference with the input provided by the client and responds with the book data that best fits the personality of the client.

3. **Frontend Interaction:**

   - The frontend facilitates the exchange of information between the client and the application. It handles the submission of requests and user-provided data. Additionally, the frontend presents the received results in a JSON format back to the client for a clear and structured display.

4. **Personality Matching:**
   - The application leverages vector differences to recommend literature genres and specific books that align with users' personalities.

## User Interaction

Users can interact with the application through the user-friendly Next.js frontend, providing input related to their personality traits. The application then processes this information to generate personalized book recommendations.

## Access the Web App

To use the web app, visit [https://match-book.vercel.app/](https://match-book.vercel.app/).

## Development Environment

Ensure all dependencies are installed and configured by running the following commands:

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Run the frontend application
npm run dev

# Run the backend application
npm run start
```
